---
layout: post
title: Reflection and introspection
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 31 May, 2010 - Canberra

It has been quite interesting trying to build a website that is minimalist yet informative and make use of a variety of media. Unfortunately, video is still a minefield on the web and even when a formal agreement is reached for HTML 5, it will still be some time before a dominant standard for web video emerges. I hope that a royalty-free video standard with an open-source reference implementation is victorious. It would terrible to see the legal wranglings that occurred with JPEG, GIF and MP3 happen again with video.

I could have saved a lot of time if I'd read the documentation for the publishing tool I chose before creating my site structure. It is quite useful to be able to separate content from structure, so I consider it a worthwhile cost.

Once I managed to get my head around using YAML front matter to add structured metadata, I was quite pleased with Jekyll as a publishing tool. There is still some boilerplate that can be factored out though.

I've added a print styleheet. My personal preference is for dense but well-flowing text in print. Your mileage may vary.

Overall, I've been disappointed that I haven't had the time to create a cohesive set of documentation. For now the website is just a collection of random rants. I'll continue to work on it after I complete the New Media course.

I accept that my current choice of colours is not optimal and interferes with identifying links.

I decided against altering standard icons just to meet the requirements of the source log aspect of the assignment. I chose rather to ensure that all content on the site is original compositions by myself. The downside of these choices is that my skills in graphic expression are quite limited.

I close with a random thought that popped into my head the other day:

Grammar geek: So how are the home renovations going?
Grammar agnostic: It's not quiet there yet.
Grammar geek: Don't you mean 'quite'?
Grammar agnostic: No.
Grammar geek: Oh, right.
